What is Quarkus?
  Quarkus is a framework to built on the top of Various java and JEE Standards.

What is JCP ?
 Java Community Process is non profitable organization whoes responsability is to standardize the java technology (java echo system).

if any java new version comes,JCP committe need to approve.

JSR-Java Specifcation Request.

Every JSR has unique no - JSR-223

What JEP (JDK Enhancement Proposal)
     The JDK Enhancement Proposal (or JEP) is a process drafted by Oracle Corporation for collecting proposals for enhancements to the Java Development Kit and OpenJDK.


Java Technology Classification

1.JSE
2.JEE
3.JME

1.JSE - Java Standard Edition
  -Java language Spec
  -Java VM Spec


2.JEE - Java Enterise Edition
 The Java Enterprise Edition offers APIs and tools for developing multitier enterprise applications.

 -Application Development Specs
    JPA Spec  - Vendor netural ORM Solutions
    JSON Binding - JSON-B  
    Java Servlet 
    JAX-RS - Building Resfull API
    JAX-WS - Building xml based webservices -SOAP Webservices
    Bean Validation
    JTA  - Java Transaction API
 -Container Specs 
    How to create Enterprise grade applications

3.JME - Java Micro Edition
   For building Device Apps , Mobile Development.

Why JEE Spec failed In Modern Computing?

     JEE Spec was developed to build traditional "Monolothic distributed,transactional, secure Applications"


What if i want to use JEE Spec for building Microservices?

 i cant use JEE Spec directly.

What if i want to build standard based microservices based On JEE?

                       "MicroProfile Specfication"



Birth of Project called MicroProfile

MicroProfile

Optimizing Enterprise Java - JEE for a Microservices Architecture.


Micro Profile addresses the need for enterprise "java microservices"

It is set of secifications for handling microservices design patterns. 

MicroProfile enables JEE Developers to leverage their existing skill set while shifiting
their focus from traditional monolithic applications to Micro Services


MicroProfile is just collections of MicroServices Service Patterns on JEE standards


Optimizing Enterprise Java - JEE for a Microservices Architecture.


Micro Profile addresses the need for enterprise "java microservices"

It is set of secifications for handling microservices design patterns. 

MicroProfile enables JEE Developers to leverage their existing skill set while shifiting
their focus from traditional monolithic applications to Micro Services


MicroProfile is just collections of MicroServices Service Patterns on JEE standards


Implmentations:

1.Quarkus
etc...

MicroProfile Specs:

1.JAX-RS - To create HTTP based Microservices-
2.CDI - Context Dependency Injection - DI - Beans
3.JSON-B
4.Configuration
5.Falut
6.Health
etc....
..............................................................................................













